# Report - DevOps Practices

1) **Agile Project Management:** is a practice that focuses on iterative and incremental development, there we need cross-functional teams that will collaborate inside it. In big project people divide into small commant to have one task that will be easier for planning and devolop. **Example:** A large team includes several back-end and front-end developers. They need to be divided into several small teams, but so that each has at least two people of different professions and a team leader. Next, the team is given a task and people discuss it together and divide the subtasks among themselves.

2) **Build Collaboration Culture:** It involves breaking down silos between different teams, such as development, operations, and quality assurance. **Example:** Developers, operations engineers, and QA testers work together on shared goals. They use chats and collaborative documents to facilitate knowledge sharing. They may have some disagreements with each other, but regular meetings and joint problem-solving sessions help break down silos.

3) **Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery:** Continuous Integration (CI) involves merging commits to code from multiple developers into a shared repository and automated build and tests to ensure the code is correct. Continuous Delivery (CD) extends CI by automating the release and deployment of changed code. **Example:** The team's СI/СD system is set up in the team's repository. A team member who wants to submit a task makes a commit and sees that he failed automatic testing, which means that the code needs to be finalized. And when the code is correct, it makes a pull request. after the pull request, the СD system pulls the changes into the deploy version.

4) **Monitor The Right Metrics:** we need it to insights into the performance, availability, and user experience, etc. It involves selecting and tracking relevant metrics that align with business goals and provide actionable information. **Example:** The team is developing a web game in which you need to complete a task in a short time. Therefore, the team analyst chooses response time and user engagement as a metric. The team focuses on them while others may be overlooked.

5) **Implement Automation:** Automation of some usual processes somehow. By automating these processes, organizations can reduce human errors, accelerate time-to-market, improve scalability, and free up some resources.
**Example:** A command can pre-configure configuration options to restart a service with a single command, instead of doing multiple conmads manually each time.
