# Introduction to DevOps

### What is Devops

DevOps is a model or a set of practices and principles that combines software development (Dev) and IT opertaions (Ops) across the entire application lifecycle which include planning, development, delivery, and operations phases .

Teams adopt DevOps culture, practices, and tools to increase confidence in the applications they build, respond better to customer needs, and achieve business goals faster. DevOps helps teams continually provide value to customers by producing better, more reliable products.

## DevOps principles and practices

### Continuous Integration (CI)

Continuous integration is a software development practice where developers regularly commit and merge code into a central repository. The purpose of continuous integration are to find and address bugs earlier and reduce time it takes to validate and release new software features. Every revision that is committed triggers an automated build and test for validation.

Example: In team of developers working on a web application, each developer works on their feature or bug fix branch. With CI, whenever a developer pushes their changes to the shared repository, an automated build process triggers. The code is compiled, tests are executed, and quality checks are performed. If any issues are detected, the team is notified, allowing them to resolve the problems promptly. This ensures that the codebase remains stable and ready for further development.

### Continuous Delivery (CD)

Continuous delivery is the practice of automating product release processes. In continuous delivery, code changes are automatically built, tested, and prepared for a release to production. It expands upon continuous integration by deploying all code changes to a testing environment and/or a production environment after the build stage.

Example: Following the previous CI example, with CD, once the code passes all tests and quality checks in the CI pipeline, it is automatically deployed to a staging environment. The software is then tested further in a realistic environment, including user acceptance testing. If all tests pass in the staging environment, the same build is automatically deployed to the production environment, making it available to users. CD allows for frequent and reliable releases, reducing the time between development and production deployments.

### Infrastructure as Code

To avoid manual set ups and configurations which are tedious and error prone, software processes and delivery infrastructure provide an API interfaces to developers. Thus, engineers can interface with infrastructure using code-based tools and treat infrastructure in a manner similar to how they treat application code. Hence, Infrastructure is can be treated as code and managed using code and software development techniques, such as version control and continuous integration. By adopting infrastructure as code principles, we gain benefits such as repeatability, version control, scalability, and automation.

example: Using a tool like Terraform, we can write code in a declarative language to define the infrastructure components needed for our web application, specify the cloud provider, virtual machines, networking, storage, load balancers, security groups and other resources. This code also can be stored in a version control system like git to track changes, roll back to previous states.

### Monitoring and Logging

Software organizations monitor metrics and logs to see how their applications and infrastructure performances impacts the experience of the end user. Capturing, categorizing and analyzing data, metrics and logs generated by applications and infrastructure helps an organization understand how changes and updates affect the software product.

example : There exist a lot of monitoring tools, some popular ones include Prometheus, Grafana, Nagios, Datadog, and New Relic. For example using Prometheus and Grafana, we can collect and expose metrics and logs. With Prometheus we can further stores metrics in a time-series databases and also set alerts that would get triggered for given thresholds. Grafana easily integrates with Prometheus and provides visualization dashboards with graphs, charts and tables to monitor an infrastructure and application metrics.

### Communication and Collaboration

Increased communication and collaboration in an organization is one of the key cultural aspects of DevOps. Encouraging cross-functional teams to work together, share knowledge, and communicate effectively to achieve common goals is essential to avoid misunderstandings and favor delivery of great software products.

example: In Agile development methodology, teams often communicate through scrum meetings where they share feedback, suggest improvements, ideas, evaluate and plan tasks with regards to the software development process. This improves transparency, and fosters a culture of shared responsibility.
