# Report - Solving problems in scenario using DevOps Practices

Let's say we have a team that wants to develop a forum for students to share study materials and discuss their problems. the team is small: it has three back-end developers, three front-end developers, a designer and a product manager.

When discussing the concept of the forum, there was a problem in choosing a development stack: the backend team suggested using a ready-made forum engine to simplify the development process, but front-end developers and designers were against it. The reason was that in this case it would be difficult to design the appearance of the site, because. forum engines are not very flexible. If the team uses the **Build Collaboration Culture** principle, then each side will express its points of view, and the product manager will listen to the arguments and decide that the benenders should either find an engine so that everyone can develop comfortably, or not use a special forum engine.

Further, during the development of the forum, konmada faced the fact that the site was difficult to cope with the simultaneous upload and download of several large files. And since that's the core purpose of this forum (sharing learning materials that can be quite large) team should use the **Monitor The Right Metrics** devops principle to understand what aspect of the site you can pay less attention to, in order to quickly solve the problem with slow loading files and crashes. After getting everyone on the team together for a discussion, the team decided that the least relevant metric would be website response time. Now, to download a file, people queue up and during this time they cannot upload or download new files.

Later, one of the team members made a commit and did not notice that it breaks one function on the site. So the team finds out that the project does not have tests integrated into the repository and it would be nice to do them. It is necessary to use the principle of **Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery** so that the described situation does not occur. Accordingly, the team set up a system of testing integrated into the repository, and now commits were checked automatically, in addition to a human code review, so that large errors did not disrupt the operation of the site's key functions.
